NXDOC-2780: Document Audit service upgrade (2025) (#2402)
nuxeo/doc.nuxeo.com-content: src/nxdoc/nuxeo-server/upgrading-the-nuxeo-platform/how-to-upgrade-from-lts-2023-to-lts-2025/how-to-upgrade-audit-service.md

---
title: How to upgrade Nuxeo Audit Service
description: Instructions to upgrade your Nuxeo Project to LTS 2025 - Nuxeo Audit Service Part
review:
   comment: ''
   date: '2025-03-31'
   status: ok
labels:
    - release-notes
toc: true
tree_item_index: 400
---

## Introduction

{{! excerpt}}
The Nuxeo Platform Audit service have been heavily reworked for reliability, security and future improvements.

In this rework we keep the backward compatibility with your existing code or your existing contributions to Audit service,
but we highly encourage you to upgrade to the new APIs.
{{! /excerpt}}

## Maven Dependency

The Maven module `org.nuxeo.ecm.platform:nuxeo-platform-audit-api` has been merged into
`org.nuxeo.ecm.platform:nuxeo-platform-audit-core`. You may need to update your pom if you were leveraging it.

Optionally, if your module depends on `org.nuxeo.ecm.platform:nuxeo-platform-audit-core:test-jar` we advise to upgrade to
`org.nuxeo.ecm.platform:nuxeo-platform-audit-test` which brings more features and the `org.nuxeo.audit.test.AuditFeature`
class that correctly configures your test execution.

> Another reason the Nuxeo Audit Service was reworked is to improve its modularity, which makes easier to add a new 
> backend to store Nuxeo audit.
> See below, the current Maven modules for LTS 2025.0:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Nuxeo Audit Service was also reworked to improve its modularity and make it easier to choose an alternative backend to store the Nuxeo audit.
See below, the current Maven modules for LTS 2025.0:
```

```xml
<dependencies>
  ..
  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.nuxeo.ecm.platform</groupId>
    <artifactId>nuxeo-platform-audit-core</artifactId>
  </dependency>
  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.nuxeo.ecm.platform</groupId>
    <artifactId>nuxeo-platform-audit-mongodb</artifactId>
  </dependency>
  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.nuxeo.ecm.platform</groupId>
    <artifactId>nuxeo-platform-audit-opensearch1</artifactId>
  </dependency>
  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.nuxeo.ecm.platform</groupId>
    <artifactId>nuxeo-platform-audit-sql</artifactId>
  </dependency>
  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.nuxeo.ecm.platform</groupId>
    <artifactId>nuxeo-platform-audit-test</artifactId>
    <scope>test</scope>
  </dependency>
  ..
</dependencies>
```

## Java Code

> All services or POJO class that you may use from the `org.nuxeo.ecm.platform.audit` package haven migrated to `org.nuxeo.audit` or they have been replaced. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All services or POJO classes you may use from the `org.nuxeo.ecm.platform.audit` package have migrated to `org.nuxeo.audit` or have been replaced.
```

This mainly impacts the following usages:

- `org.nuxeo.ecm.platform.audit.api.LogEntry` should be updated to `org.nuxeo.audit.api.LogEntry`
- usage of `AuditAdmin`, `AuditLogger`, `AuditReader` and `Logs` should be updated to `org.nuxeo.audit.service.AuditBackend`

> For example, previous Audit Service usages would be:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, previous Audit Service usage would be:
```

Contributions made to `org.nuxeo.ecm.platform.audit.service.NXAuditEventsService` extension points should be updated to the new services.

### Events

Events extension point declaration didn’t change, just the target of the contribution:

```xml
<extension target="org.nuxeo.ecm.platform.audit.service.NXAuditEventsService" point="event">
    <event name="eventNameToAudit" />
</extension>
```

Should be updated to:

```xml
<extension target="org.nuxeo.audit.service.AuditComponent" point="event">
    <event name="eventNameToAudit" />
</extension>
```

### Extended Info

Extended Info extension point didn’t change, just the target of the contributions:

```xml
<extension target="org.nuxeo.ecm.platform.audit.service.NXAuditEventsService" point="extendedInfo">
    <extendedInfo key="title" expression="${source.dublincore.title}" />
</extension>
```

Should be updated to:

```xml
<extension target="org.nuxeo.audit.service.AuditComponent" point="extendedInfo">
    <extendedInfo key="title" expression="${source.dublincore.title}" />
</extension>
```

## Operation

The `Audit.Query` operation has been removed from contributed operations because it was tied to SQL Audit Backend.

> If you were using it we advice to migrate your usage to the `Audit.QueryWithPageProvider` which does the same thing but

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you were using it, we advise to migrate your usage to the `Audit.QueryWithPageProvider`, which does the same thing but
```

> If you were using it we advice to migrate your usage to the `Audit.QueryWithPageProvider` which does the same thing but
> compatible with all backend implementations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you were using it, we advise migrating your usage to the `Audit.QueryWithPageProvider`, which does the same thing but is compatible with all backend implementations.
```

> The `Audit.QueryWithPageProvider` now supports NXQL on the `query` parameter to query your Audit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Audit.QueryWithPageProvider` now supports NXQL as `query` parameter to query your Audit.
```

nuxeo.opensearch1.client.keyStore.password=
nuxeo.opensearch1.client.keyStore.type=

# audit specific
nuxeo.audit.backend.default.opensearch1.index.name=nuxeo-audit
nuxeo.audit.backend.default.opensearch1.settings.indexTranslogDurability=request
nuxeo.audit.backend.default.opensearch1.settings.numberOfShards=5
nuxeo.audit.backend.default.opensearch1.settings.numberOfReplicas=1
nuxeo.audit.opensearch1.latestLogId.afterDate=now-14d/d
```

### Audit in MongoDB

To store the Nuxeo audit in MongoDB you need to install the [nuxeo-audit-mongodb](https://connect.nuxeo.com/nuxeo/site/marketplace/package/nuxeo-audit-mongodb)
package.
After installation, check that the `mongodb-audit` template is included in your `nuxeo.conf` file. The template
will enable the MongoDB Audit Backend.

The package works with your `nuxeo.mongodb.*` configuration properties, as before. The only property to update is:
`nuxeo.mongodb.audit.collection.name`, see new configuration properties:

```properties
nuxeo.audit.backend.default.mongodb.collection.name=audit

# all nuxeo.mongodb.* properties are available for audit backend, for instance
nuxeo.audit.backend.default.mongodb.dbname=nuxeo
```

> The extended info are now stored as Object in MongoDB instead of plain String. This allows to enable the feature 
> to search in extended infos.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The extended info is now stored as an Object in MongoDB instead of a plain String. This enables the search in extended info feature.
```

> If you want to preserver the previous behavior, set this parameter in your `nuxeo.conf`:

Reviewer: ```
If you want to preserve the previous behavior, set this parameter in your `nuxeo.conf`:
```

`org.nuxeo.ecm.platform:nuxeo-platform-audit-test`, which brings more features, among others, the `org.nuxeo.audit.test.AuditFeature`
class that correctly configures your test execution.

The Nuxeo Audit Service was also reworked to improve its modularity and make it easier to implement an alternative
backend to store the Nuxeo audit.
See below, the current Maven modules for LTS 2025.0:

```xml
<dependencies>
  ..
  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.nuxeo.ecm.platform</groupId>
    <artifactId>nuxeo-platform-audit-core</artifactId>
  </dependency>
  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.nuxeo.ecm.platform</groupId>
    <artifactId>nuxeo-platform-audit-mongodb</artifactId>
  </dependency>
  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.nuxeo.ecm.platform</groupId>
    <artifactId>nuxeo-platform-audit-opensearch1</artifactId>
  </dependency>
  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.nuxeo.ecm.platform</groupId>
    <artifactId>nuxeo-platform-audit-sql</artifactId>
  </dependency>
  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.nuxeo.ecm.platform</groupId>
    <artifactId>nuxeo-platform-audit-test</artifactId>
    <scope>test</scope>
  </dependency>
  ..
</dependencies>
```

## Java Code

> All services or POJO classes you may use from the `org.nuxeo.ecm.platform.audit` package have migrated to `org.nuxeo.audit` 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All services or POJO classes you may use from the `org.nuxeo.ecm.platform.audit` package have been migrated to `org.nuxeo.audit` 
```

or have been replaced. 
This mainly impacts the following usages:

- `org.nuxeo.ecm.platform.audit.api.LogEntry` should be updated to `org.nuxeo.audit.api.LogEntry`

> - usage of `AuditAdmin`, `AuditLogger`, `AuditReader` and `Logs` should be updated to `org.nuxeo.audit.service.AuditBackend`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- `AuditAdmin`, `AuditLogger`, `AuditReader` and `Logs` should be updated to `org.nuxeo.audit.service.AuditBackend`
```

    Framework.getService(AuditBackend.class).addLogEntries(List.of(logEntry));
}
```

## XML Contributions

Contributions made to `org.nuxeo.ecm.platform.audit.service.NXAuditEventsService` extension points should be updated to the new services.

### Events

Events extension point declaration didn’t change, just the target of the contribution:

```xml
<extension target="org.nuxeo.ecm.platform.audit.service.NXAuditEventsService" point="event">
    <event name="eventNameToAudit" />
</extension>
```

Should be updated to:

```xml
<extension target="org.nuxeo.audit.service.AuditComponent" point="event">
    <event name="eventNameToAudit" />
</extension>
```

### Extended Info

Extended Info extension point didn’t change, just the target of the contributions:

```xml
<extension target="org.nuxeo.ecm.platform.audit.service.NXAuditEventsService" point="extendedInfo">
    <extendedInfo key="title" expression="${source.dublincore.title}" />
</extension>
```

Should be updated to:

```xml
<extension target="org.nuxeo.audit.service.AuditComponent" point="extendedInfo">
    <extendedInfo key="title" expression="${source.dublincore.title}" />
</extension>
```

## Operation

> The `Audit.Query` operation has been removed from contributed operations because it was tied to SQL Audit Backend.

Reviewer 3: That means it still there but not contributed? Maybe add a comment on how to re-enable it if **really needed**?

If you were using it, we advise migrating your usage to the `Audit.QueryWithPageProvider`, which does the same thing
while being compatible with all backend implementations.

The `Audit.QueryWithPageProvider` now supports NXQL for the `query` parameter to query your Audit.

## Nuxeo Server Configuration

> Nuxeo Server is now provided with an in memory implementation for Audit storage, which means that you need to install

Reviewer 4: Could be in a warning  ```suggestion
Nuxeo Server is now provided with an in memory implementation for Audit storage, this default implementation is for testing purpose only which means that you need to explicitly install
```

package.
After installation, check that the `opensearch1-audit` template is included in your `nuxeo.conf` file. The template
will enable the OpenSearch Audit Backend. The previous `audit.elasticsearch.enabled` configuration property has no more effect.

Previously, the ElasticSearch / OpenSearch configuration property for Audit looked like:

```properties
# generic
elasticsearch.addressList=http://localhost:9200
elasticsearch.index.translog.durability=request
elasticsearch.indexNumberOfShards=5
elasticsearch.indexNumberOfReplicas=1
elasticsearch.restClient.connectionTimeoutMs=30000
elasticsearch.restClient.socketTimeoutMs=121000
elasticsearch.restClient.ssl.certificate.verification=true

# optional
elasticsearch.restClient.username=
elasticsearch.restClient.password=
elasticsearch.restClient.truststore.path=
elasticsearch.restClient.truststore.password=
elasticsearch.restClient.truststore.type=
elasticsearch.restClient.keystore.path=
elasticsearch.restClient.keystore.password=
elasticsearch.restClient.keystore.type=

# audit specific
audit.elasticsearch.indexName=${elasticsearch.indexName}-audit
audit.elasticsearch.latestLogId.afterDate=now-14d/d
```

> Now you will configure OpenSearch / ElasticSearch connection with:

Reviewer 3: Mention ES 7 & 8? Or just remove Elasticsearch refs?

Reviewer 4: yes maybe at the beginning something like:
The `nuxeo-audit-opensearch1` package is able to store Nuxeo audit in an OpenSearch 1.x, Elasticsearch 7.x or Elasticsearch 8.x cluster.

nuxeo.audit.opensearch1.latestLogId.afterDate=now-14d/d
```

### Audit in MongoDB

To store the Nuxeo audit in MongoDB you need to install the [nuxeo-audit-mongodb](https://connect.nuxeo.com/nuxeo/site/marketplace/package/nuxeo-audit-mongodb)
package.
After installation, check that the `mongodb-audit` template is included in your `nuxeo.conf` file. The template
will enable the MongoDB Audit Backend.

The package works with your `nuxeo.mongodb.*` configuration properties, as before. The only property to update is:
`nuxeo.mongodb.audit.collection.name`, see new configuration properties:

```properties
nuxeo.audit.backend.default.mongodb.collection.name=audit

# all nuxeo.mongodb.* properties are available for audit backend, for instance
nuxeo.audit.backend.default.mongodb.dbname=nuxeo
```

The extended info is now stored as an Object in MongoDB instead of a plain String. This enables the search in extended 
info feature.

If you want to preserve the previous behavior, set this parameter in your `nuxeo.conf`:

```properties
nuxeo.audit.backend.mongodb.extended.json.as.object=false
```

### Audit In SQL - Hibernate (Legacy)

> To store the Nuxeo audit in your SQL DB you need to install the [nuxeo-audit-sql](https://connect.nuxeo.com/nuxeo/site/marketplace/package/nuxeo-audit-mongodb)

Reviewer 3: Wrong package URL, right?
